

In our banking system, banks have many products to sell but main source of income of any banks is on its credit line. So they can earn from interest of those loans which they credits. A bank’s profit or a loss depends to a large extent on loans i.e. whether the customers are paying back the loan or defaulting. By predicting the loan defaulters, the bank can reduce its Non-performing Assets. This makes the study of this phenomenon very important. Previous research in this era has shown that there are so many methods to study the problem of controlling loan default. But as the right predictions are very important for the maximization of profits, it is essential to study the nature of the different methods and their comparison. A very important approach in predictive analytics is used to study the problem of predicting loan defaulters (i) Collection of Data, (ii) Data Cleaning and (iii) Performance Evaluation. Experimental tests found that the Naïve Bayes model has better performance than other models in terms of loan forecasting

The cost of assets is increasing day by day and the capital required to purchase an entire
asset is very high. So purchasing it out of your savings is not possible. The easiest way to get the required funds is to apply for a loan. But taking a loan is a very time consuming process. Theapplication has to go through a lot of stages and it’s still not necessary that it will be approved.

To decrease the approval time and to decrease the risk associated with the loan many loan prediction models were introduced. The aim of this project was to compare the various Loan Prediction Models and show which is the best one with the least amount of error and could be used by banks in real world to predict if the loan should be approved or not taking the risk factor in mind.After comparing and analysing the models, it was found that the prediction model based on Random Forest proved to be the most accurate and fitting of them all. This can be useful in reducing the time and manpower required to approve loans and filter out the perfect candidates for providing
loans.   
  
